
THE GODFATHER
_____________

Screenplay

by

MARIO PUZO

and

FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA



















THIRD DRAFT						 PARAMOUNT PICTURES
									1 Gulf and Western 
Plaza
March 29, 1971						 New York, New York 10019





INT DAY: DON'S OFFICE (SUMMER 1945)

The PARAMOUNT Logo is presented austerely over a black
background.  There is a moment's hesitation, and then the
simple words in white lettering:

					  THE GODFATHER

While this remains, we hear: "I believe in America."
Suddenly we are watching in CLOSE VIEW, AMERIGO BONASERA, a
man of sixty, dressed in a black suit, on the verge of great
emotion.

					BONASERA
			America has made my fortune.

As he speaks, THE VIEW imperceptibly begins to loosen.

					BONASERA
			I raised my daughter in the American
			fashion; I gave her freedom, but
			taught her never to dishonor her
			family.  She found a boy friend,
			not an Italian.  She went to the
			movies with him, stayed out late.
			Two months ago he took her for a
			drive, with another boy friend.
			They made her drink whiskey and
			then they tried to take advantage
			of her.  She resisted; she kept her
			honor.  So they beat her like an
			animal.  When I went to the hospital
			her nose was broken, her jaw was
			shattered and held together by
			wire, and she could not even weep
			because of the pain.

He can barely speak; he is weeping now.

					BONASERA
			I went to the Police like a good
			American.  These two boys were
			arrested and brought to trial.  The
			judge sentenced them to three years
			in prison, and suspended the
			sentence.  Suspended sentence!
			They went free that very day.  I
			stood in the courtroom like a fool,
			and those bastards, they smiled at
			me.  Then I said to my wife, for
			Justice, we must go to The Godfather.

By now, THE VIEW is full, and we see Don Corleone's office
in his home.

The blinds are closed, and so the room is dark, and with
patterned shadows.  We are watching BONASERA over the
shoulder of DON CORLEONE.  TOM HAGEN sits near a small
table, examining some paperwork, and SONNY CORLEONE stands
impatiently by the window nearest his father, sipping from a
glass of wine.  We can HEAR music, and the laughter and
voices of many people outside.

					DON CORLEONE
			Bonasera, we know each other for
			years, but this is the first time
			you come to me for help.  I don't
			remember the last time you invited
			me to your house for coffee...even
			though our wives are friends.

					BONASERA
			What do you want of me?  I'll give
			you anything you want, but do what
			I ask!

					DON CORLEONE
			And what is that Bonasera?

BONASERA whispers into the DON's ear.

					DON CORLEONE
			No.  You ask for too much.

					BONASERA
			I ask for Justice.

					DON CORLEONE
			The Court gave you justice.

					BONASERA
			An eye for an eye!

					DON CORLEONE
			But your daughter is still alive.

					BONASERA
			Then make them suffer as she
			suffers.  How much shall I pay you.

Both HAGEN and SONNY react.

					DON CORLEONE
			You never think to protect yourself
			with real friends.  You think it's
			enough to be an American.  All
			right, the Police protects you,
			there are Courts of Law, so you
			don't need a friend like me.
			But now you come to me and say Don
			Corleone, you must give me justice.
			And you don't ask in respect or
			friendship.  And you don't think to
			call me Godfather; instead you come
			to my house on the day my daughter
			is to be married and you ask me to
			do murder...for money.

					BONASERA
			America has been good to me...

					DON CORLEONE
			Then take the justice from the
			judge, the bitter with the sweet,
			Bonasera.  But if you come to me
			with your friendship, your loyalty,
			then your enemies become my enemies,
			and then, believe me, they would
			fear you...

Slowly, Bonasera bows his head and murmurs.

					BONASERA
			Be my friend.

					DON CORLEONE
			Good.  From me you'll get Justice.

					BONASERA
			Godfather.

					DON CORLEONE
			Some day, and that day may never
			come, I would like to call upon you
			to do me a service in return.

EXT DAY: MALL (SUMMER 1945)

A HIGH ANGLE of the CORLEONE MALL in bright daylight.  There
are at least five hundred guests filling the main courtyard
and gardens.  There is music and laughing and dancing and
countless tables covered with food and wine.

DON CORLEONE stands at the Gate, flanked on either side by a
son: FREDO and SONNY, all dressed in the formal attire of
the wedding party.  He warmly shakes the hands, squeezes the
hands of the friends and guests, pinches the cheeks of the
children, and makes them all welcome.  They in turn carry
with them gallons of homemade wine, cartons of freshly baked
bread and pastries, and enormous trays of Italian delicacies.

The entire family poses for a family portrait: DON CORLEONE,
MAMA, SONNY, his wife, SANDRA, and their children, TOM HAGEN
and his wife, THERESA, and their BABY; CONSTANZIA, the
bride, and her bridegroom, CARLO RIZZI.  As they move into
the pose, THE DON seems preoccupied.

					DON CORLEONE
			Where's Michael?

					SONNY
			He'll be here Pop, it's still early.

					DON CORLEONE
			Then the picture will wait for him.

Everyone in the group feels the uneasiness as the DON moves
back to the house.  SONNY gives a delicious smile in the
direction of the Maid-of-Honor, LUCY MANCINI.  She returns
it.  Then he moves to his wife.

					SONNY
			Sandra, watch the kids.  They're
			running wild.

					SANDRA
			You watch yourself.

HAGEN kisses his WIFE, and follows THE DON, passing the wine
barrels, where a group of FOUR MEN nervously wait.  TOM
crooks a finger at NAZORINE, who doublechecks that he is
next, straightens, and follows HAGEN.

EXT DAY: MALL ENTRANCE (SUMMER 1945)

Outside the main gate of the Mall, SEVERAL MEN in suits,
working together with a MAN in a dark sedan, walk in and out
of the rows of parked cars, writing license plate numbers
down in their notebooks.  We HEAR the music and laughter
coming from the party in the distance.

A MAN stops at a limousine and copies down the number.

BARZINI, dignified in a black homburg, is always under the
watchful eyes of TWO BODYGUARDS as he makes his way to
embrace DON CORLEONE in the courtyard.

The MEN walk down another row of parked cars.  Put another
number in the notebook.  A shiney new Cadillac with wooden
bumpers.

PETER CLEMENZA, dancing the Tarantella joyously, bumping
bellies with the ladies.

					CLEMENZA
			Paulie...wine...WINE.

He mops his sweating forehead with a big handkerchief.
PAULIE hustles, gets a glass of icy black wine, and brings
it to him.

					PAULIE
			You look terrif on the floor!

					CLEMENZA
			What are you, a dance judge?  Go do
			your job; take a walk around the
			neighborhood... see everything is
			okay.

PAULIE nods and leaves; CLEMENZA takes a breath, and leaps
back into the dance.

The MEN walk down another row of parked cars.  Put another
number in the notebook.

TESSIO, a tall, gentle-looking man, dances with a NINE-YEAR-
OLD GIRL, her little black party shoes planted on his
enormous brown shoes.

The MEN move on to other parked cars, when SONNY storms out
of the gate, his face flushed with anger, followed by
CLEMENZA and PAULIE.

					SONNY
			Buddy, this is a private party.

The MAN doesn't answer, but points to the DRIVER of the
sedan.  SONNY menacingly thrusts his reddened face at him.
The DRIVER merely flips open his wallet to a greed card,
without saying a word.  SONNY steps back, spits on the
ground, turns, and walks away, followed by CLEMENZA, PAULIE,
and another TWO MEN.  He doesn't say a thing for most of the
walk back into the courtyard, and then, muttered to PAULIE.

					SONNY
			Goddamn FBI...don't respect nothing.

INT DAY: DON'S OFFICE (SUMMER 1945)

DON CORLEONE sits quietly behind his massive desk in the
dark study.

					NAZORINE
			...a fine boy from Sicily, captured
			by the American Army, and sent to
			New Jersey as a prisoner of war...

					DON CORLEONE
			Nazorine, my friend, tell me what I
			can do.

					NAZORINE
			Now that the war is over, Enzo,
			this boy is being repatriated to
			Italy.  And you see, Godfather...
				  (he wrings his hands,
				  unable to express himself)
			He...my daughter...they...

					DON CORLEONE
			You want him to stay in this country.

					NAZORINE
			Godfather, you understand everything.

					DON CORLEONE
			Tom, what we need is an Act of
			Congress to allow Enzo to become a
			citizen.

					NAZORINE
				  (impressed)
			An Act of Congress!

					HAGEN
				  (nodding)
			It will cost.

The DON shrugs; such are the way with those things; NAZORINE
nods.

					NAZORINE
			Is that all?  Godfather, thank
			you...
				  (backing out, enthusiastically)
			Oh, wait till you see the cake I
			made for your beautiful daughter!

NAZORINE backs out, all smiles, and nods to the GODFATHER.
DON CORLEONE rises and moves to the Venetian blinds.

					HAGEN
			Who do I give this job to?

The DON moves to the windows, peeking out through the blinds.

					DON CORLEONE
			Not to one of our paisans...give it
			to a Jew Congressman in another
			district.  Who else is on the list
			for today?

The DON is peeking out to the MEN around the barrel, waiting
to see him.

					HAGEN
			Francesco Nippi.  His nephew has
			been refused parole.  A bad case.

EXT DAY: MALL (SUMMER 1945)

WHAT HE SEES:

NIPPI waits nervously by the barrel.

					HAGEN (O.S.)
			His father worked with you in the
			freight yards when you were young.

LUCA BRASI sitting alone, grotesque and quiet.

					HAGEN (O.S.)
			He's not on the list, but Luca
			Brasi wants to see you.

INT DAY: DON'S OFFICE (SUMMER 1945)

The DON turns to HAGEN.

					DON CORLEONE
			Is it necessary?

					HAGEN
			You understand him better than
			anyone.

The DON nods to this.  Turns back to the blinds and peeks out.

EXT DAY: MALL (SUMMER 1945)

WHAT HE SEES:

MICHAEL CORLEONE, dressed in the uniform of a Marine Captain,
leads KAY ADAMS through the wedding crowd, occasionally
stopped and greeted by FRIENDS of the family.

INT DAY: DON'S OFFICE (SUMMER 1945)

The DON, inside the office, peering through the blinds,
following them.

EXT DAY: MALL (SUMMER 1945)

MICHAEL moves through the crowd, embraces MAMA and introduces
her to his GIRL.

EXT DAY: OFFICE WINDOW (SUMMER 1945)

The DON's eyes peering through the blinds.

EXT DAY: MALL TABLES (SUMMER 1945)

KAY and MICHAEL settle by a table on the edge of the wedding,
burdened down with plates of food and glasses and wine.  She
is exhilarated by the enormity of the affair, the music and
the vitality.

					KAY
			I've never seen anything like it.

					MICHAEL
			I told you I had a lot of relatives.

KAY looking about, a young and lively thing in a gift shop.
We see what she sees:

Her interest is caught by THREE MEN standing by the wine
barrels.

					KAY
				  (amused)
			Michael, what are those men doing?

					MICHAEL
			They're waiting to see my father.

					KAY
			They're talking to themselves.

					MICHAEL
			They're going to talk to my father,
			which means they're going to ask
			him for something, which means they
			better get it right.

					KAY
			Why do they bother him on a day
			like this?

					MICHAEL
			Because they know that no Sicilian
			will refuse a request on his
			daughter's wedding day.

EXT DAY: WEDDING PARTY (SUMMER 1945)

CONNIE CORLEONE, the Bride, is pressing the bodice of her
overly-fluffy white gown against the groom, CARLO RIZZI.  He
is bronzed, with curly blondish hair and lovely dimples.
She absolutely adores him and can barely take her eyes from
him long enough to thank the various GUESTS for the white
envelopes they are putting into the large white purse she
holds.  In fact, if we watch carefully, we can see that one
of her hands is slid under his jacket, and into his shirt,
where she is provocatively rubbing the hair on his chest.
CARLO, on the other hand, has his blue eyes trained on the
bulging envelopes, and is trying to guess how much cash the
things hold.

Discreetly, he moves her hand off of his skin.

					CARLO
				  (whispered)
			Cut it out, Connie.

The purse, looped by a ribbon of silk around CONNIE's arm,
is fat with money.

					PAULIE (O.S.)
			What do you think?  Twenty grand?

A little distance away, a young man, PAULIE GATTO, catches a
prosciutto sandwich thrown by a friend, without once taking
eyes from the purse.

					PAULIE
			Who knows?  Maybe more.  Twenty,
			thirty grand in small bills cash in
			that silk purse.  Holy Toledo, if
			this was somebody else's wedding!

SONNY is sitting at the Wedding Dias, talking to LUCY
MANCINI, the Maid of Honor.  Every once in a while he
glances across the courtyard, where his WIFE is talking with
some WOMEN.

He bends over and whispers something into LUCY's ear.

SANDRA and the WOMEN are in the middle of a big, ribald laugh.

					WOMAN
			Is it true what they say about your
			husband, Sandra?

SANDRA's hands separate with expanding width further and
further apart until she bursts into a peal of laughter.
Through her separated hands she sees the Wedding Dais.
SONNY and LUCY are gone.

INT DAY: DON'S HALL & STAIRS (SUMMER 1945)

The empty hallway.  The bathroom door opens and LUCY
surreptitiously steps out.

She looks up where SONNY is standing on the second landing,
motioning for her to come up.

She lifts her petticoats off the ground and hurries upstairs.

EXT DAY: MALL TABLES (SUMMER 1945)

KAY and MICHAEL.

					KAY
				  (in a spooky low tone)
			Michael, that scarey guy...Is he a
			relative?

She has picked out LUCA BRASI.

					MICHAEL
			No.  His name is Luca Brasi.  You
			wouldn't like him.

					KAY
				  (Excited)
			Who is he?

					MICHAEL
				  (Sizing her up)
			You really want to know?

					KAY
			Yes.  Tell me.

					MICHAEL
			You like spaghetti?

					KAY
			You know I love spaghetti.

					MICHAEL
			Then eat your spaghetti and I'll
			tell you a Luca Brasi story.

She starts to eat her spaghetti.

She begins eating, looking at him eagerly.

					MICHAEL
			Once upon a time, about fifteen
			years ago some people wanted to
			take over my father's olive oil
			business.  They had Al Capone send
			some men in from Chicago to kill my
			father, and they almost did.

					KAY
			Al Capone!

					MICHAEL
			My Father sent Luca Brasi after
			them.  He tied the two Capone men
			hand and foot, and stuffed small
			bath towels into their mouths.
			Then he took an ax, and chopped one
			man's feet off...

					KAY
			Michael...

					MICHAEL
			Then the legs at the knees...

					KAY
			Michael you're trying to scare me...

					MICHAEL
			Then the thighs where they joined
			the torso.

					KAY
			Michael, I don't want to hear
			anymore...

					MICHAEL
			Then Luca turned to the other man...

					KAY
			Michael, I love you.

					MICHAEL
			...who out of sheer terror had
			swallowed the bath towel in his
			mouth and suffocated.

The smile on his face seems to indicate that he is telling a
tall story.

					KAY
			I never know when you're telling me
			the truth.

					MICHAEL
			I told you you wouldn't like him.

					KAY
			He's coming over here!

LUCA comes toward them to meet TOM HAGEN halfway, just near
their table.

					MICHAEL
			Tom...Tom, I'd like you to meet Kay
			Adams.

					KAY
				  (having survived LUCA)
			How do you do.

					MICHAEL
			My brother, Tom Hagen.

					HAGEN
			Hello Kay.  Your father's inside,
			doing some business.
				  (privately)
			He's been asking for you.

					MICHAEL
			Thanks Tom.

HAGEN smiles and moves back to the house, LUCA ominously
following.

					KAY
			If he's your brother, why does he
			have a different name?

					MICHAEL
			My brother Sonny found him living
			in the streets when he was a kid,
			so my father took him in.  He's a
			good lawyer.

INT DAY: DON'S OFFICE (SUMMER 1945)

DON CORLEONE at the window.  He has seen the intimacy of the
YOUNG COUPLE.

					LUCA (O.S.)
			Don Corleone...

THE DON turns to the stiffly formal LUCA, and he moves
forward to kiss his hand.  He takes the envelope from his
jacket, holds it out, but does not release it until he makes
a formal speech.

					LUCA
				  (with difficulty)
			Don Corleone...I am honored, and
			grateful...that you invited me to
			your home...on the wedding day of
			your...daughter.
			May their first child...be a
			masculine child.  I pledge my never
			ending loyalty.
				  (he offers the envelope)
			For your daughter's bridal purse.

					DON CORLEONE
			Thank you, Luca, my most valued
			friend.

THE DON takes it, and then LUCA's hand, which he squeezes so
tightly we might imagine it to be painful.

					LUCA
			Let me leave you, Don Corleone.  I
			know you are busy.

He turns, almost an about-face, and leaves the study with
the same formality he entered with.  DON CORLEONE breathes
more easily, and gives the thick envelope to HAGEN.

					DON CORLEONE
			I'm sure it's the most generous
			gift today.

					HAGEN
			The Senator called--apologized for
			not coming personally, but said
			you'd understand.  Also, some of
			the Judges...they've all sent gifts.
			And another call from Virgil
			Sollozzo.

DON CORLEONE is not pleased.

					HAGEN
			The action is narcotics.  Sollozzo
			has contacts in Turkey for the
			poppy, in Sicily for the plants to
			process down to morphine or up to
			heroin.  Also he has access to this
			country.  He's coming to us for
			financial help, and some sort of
			immunity from the law.  For that we
			get a piece of the action, I
			couldn't find out how much.
			Sollozzo is vouched for by the
			Tattaglia family, and they may have
			a piece of the action.  They call
			Sollozzo the Turk.
			He's spent a lot of time in Turkey
			and is suppose to have a Turkish
			wife and kids.  He's suppose to be
			very quick with the knife, or was,
			when he was younger.  Only in
			matters of business and with some
			reasonable complaint.  Also he has
			an American wife and three children
			and he is a good family man.

THE DON nods.

					HAGEN
			He's his own boss, and very
			competent.

					DON CORLEONE
			And with prison record.

					HAGEN
			Two terms; one in Italy, one in the
			United States.  He's known to the
			Government as a top narcotics man.
			That could be a plus for us; he
			could never get immunity to testify.

					DON CORLEONE
			When did he call?

					HAGEN
			This morning.

					DON CORLEONE
			On a day like this.  Consiglero, do
			you also have in your notes the the
			Turk made his living from
			Prostitution before the war, like
			the Tattaglias do now.  Write that
			down before you forget it.  The
			Turk will wait.

We now begin to hear a song coming over the loud-speakers
from outside.  In Italian, with unmistakable style.

					DON CORLEONE
			What that?  It sounds like Johnny.

He moves to the window, pulls the blinds up, flooding the
room with light.

					DON CORLEONE
			It is Johnny.  He came all the way
			from California to be at the wedding.

					HAGEN
			Should I bring him in.

					DON CORLEONE
			No.  Let the people enjoy him.  You
			see?  He is a good godson.

					HAGEN
			It's been two years.  He's probably
			in trouble again.

EXT DAY: MALL (SUMMER 1945)

JOHNNY FONTANE on the bandstand, singing to the delight and
excitement of the wedding GUESTS.

					KAY
			I didn't know your family knew
			Johnny Fontane.

					MICHAEL
			Sure.

					KAY
			I used to come down to New York
			whenever he sang at the Capitol and
			scream my head off.

					MICHAEL
			He's my father's godson; he owes
			him his whole career.

JOHNNY finishes the song and the CROWD screams with delight.
They call out for another when DON CORLEONE appears.

					DON CORLEONE
			My Godson has come three thousand
			miles to do us honor and no one
			thinks to wet his throat.

At once a dozen wine glasses are offered to JOHNNY, who
takes a sip from each as he moves to embrace his GODFATHER.

					JOHNNY
			I kept trying to call you after my
			divorce and Tom always said you
			were busy.  When I got the Wedding
			invitation I knew you weren't sore
			at me anymore, Godfather.

					DON CORLEONE
			Can I do something for you still?
			You're not too rich, or too famous
			that I can't help you?

					JOHNNY
			I'm not rich anymore, Godfather,
			and...my career, I'm almost washed
			up...

He's very disturbed.  The GODFATHER indicates that he come
with him to the office so no one will notice.  He turns to
HAGEN.

					DON CORLEONE
			Tell Santino to come in with us.
			He should hear some things.

They go, leaving HAGEN scanning the party looking for SONNY.

INT DAY: DON'S OFFICE (SUMMER 1945)

HAGEN glances up the staircase.

					HAGEN
			Sonny?

Then he goes up.

INT DAY: DON'S UPSTAIRS ROOM (SUMMER 1945)

SONNY and LUCY are in a room upstairs; he has lifted her
gown's skirts almost over her head, and has her standing
against the door.  Her face peeks out from the layers of
petticoats around it like a flower in ecstasy.

					LUCY
			Sonnyeeeeeeee.

Her head bouncing against the door with the rhythm of his
body.  But there is a knocking as well.  They stop, freeze
in that position.

					HAGEN (O.S.)
			Sonny?  Sonny, you in there?

INT DAY: DON'S UPSTAIRS HALLWAY (SUMMER 1945)

Outside, HAGEN by the door.

					HAGEN
			The old man wants you; Johnny's
			here...he's got a problem.

					SONNY (O.S.)
			Okay.  One minute.

HAGEN hesitates.  We HEAR LUCY's head bouncing against the
door again.  TOM leaves.

INT DAY: DON'S OFFICE (SUMMER 1945)

					DON CORLEONE
			ACT LIKE A MAN!  By Christ in
			Heaven, is it possible you turned
			out no better than a Hollywood
			finocchio.

Both HAGEN and JOHNNY cannot refrain from laughing.  The DON
smiles.  SONNY enters as noiselessly as possible, still
adjusting his clothes.

					DON CORLEONE
			All right, Hollywood...Now tell me
			about this Hollywood Pezzonovanta
			who won't let you work.

					JOHNNY
			He owns the studio.  Just a month
			ago he bought the movie rights to
			this book, a best seller.  And the
			main character is a guy just like
			me.  I wouldn't even have to act,
			just be myself.

The DON is silent, stern.

					DON CORLEONE
			You take care of your family?

					JOHNNY
			Sure.

He glances at SONNY, who makes himself as inconspicuous as
he can.

					DON CORLEONE
			You look terrible.  I want you to
			eat well, to rest.  And spend time
			with your family.  And then, at the
			end of the month, this big shot
			will give you the part you want.

					JOHNNY
			It's too late.  All the contracts
			have been signed, they're almost
			ready to shoot.

					DON CORLEONE
			I'll make him an offer he can't
			refuse.

He takes JOHNNY to the door, pinching his cheek hard enough
to hurt.

					DON CORLEONE
			Now go back to the party and leave
			it to me.

He closes the door, smiling to himself.  Turns to HAGEN.

					DON CORLEONE
			When does my daughter leave with
			her bridegroom?

					HAGEN
			They'll cut the cake in a few
			minutes...leave right after that.
			Your new son-in-law, do we give him
			something important?

					DON CORLEONE
			No, give him a living.  But never
			let him know the family's business.
			What else, Tom?

					HAGEN
			I've called the hospital; they've
			notified Consiglere Genco's family
			to come and wait.  He won't last
			out the night.

This saddens the DON.  He sighs.

					DON CORLEONE
			Genco will wait for me.  Santino,
			tell your brothers they will come
			with me to the hospital to see
			Genco.  Tell Fredo to drive the big
			car, and ask Johnny to come with us.

					SONNY
			And Michael?

					DON CORLEONE
			All my sons.
				  (to HAGEN)
			Tom, I want you to go to California
			tonight.  Make the arrangements.
			But don't leave until I come back
			from the hospital and speak to you.
			Understood?

					HAGEN
			Understood.

EXT DAY: MALL (SUMMER 1945)

Now all the wedding GUESTS excitedly clap their hands over
the entrance of the cake: NAZORINE is beaming as he wheels
in a serving table containing the biggest, gaudiest, most
extravagant wedding cake ever baked, an incredible monument
of his gratitude.  The CROWD is favorably impressed: they
begin to clink their knives or forks against their glasses,
in the traditional request for the Bride to cut the cake and
kiss the Groom.  Louder and louder, five hundred forks
hitting five hundred glasses.

EXT DAY: MALL (SUMMER 1945)

Silence.

HIGH ANGLE ON THE MALL, late day.  The GUESTS are gone.  A
single black car is in the courtyard.  FREDDIE is behind the
driver's seat: the DON enters the car, looks at MICHAEL, who
sits between SONNY and JOHNNY in the rear seat.

					DON CORLEONE
			Will your girl friend get back to
			the city all right?

					MICHAEL
			Tom said he'd take care of it.

The DON pulls the door shut; and the car pulls out, through
the gate of the great Corleone Mall.

INT DAY: HOSPITAL CORRIDOR (SUMMER 1945)

A long white hospital corridor, at the end of which we can
see a grouping of FIVE WOMEN, some old and some young, but
all plump and dressed in black.

DON CORLEONE and his SONS move toward the end.  But then the
DON slows, putting his hand on MICHAEL's shoulder.  MICHAEL
stops and turns toward his FATHER.  The two looks at one
another for some time.  SILENCE.  DON CORLEONE then lifts
his hand, and slowly touches a particular medal on MICHAEL's
uniform.

					DON CORLEONE
			What was this for?

					MICHAEL
			For bravery.

					DON CORLEONE
			And this?

					MICHAEL
			For killing a man.

					DON CORLEONE
			What miracles you do for strangers.

					MICHAEL
			I fought for my country.  It was my
			choice.

					DON CORLEONE
			And now, what do you choose to do?

					MICHAEL
			I'm going to finish school.

					DON CORLEONE
			Good.  When you are finished, come
			and talk to me.  I have hopes for
			you.

Again they regard each other without a word.  MICHAEL turns,
and continues on.  DON CORLEONE watches a moment, and then
follows.

INT DAY: HOSPITAL ROOM (SUMMER 1945)

DON CORLEONE enters the hospital room, moving closest to OUR
VIEW.  He is followed by his SONS, JOHNNY and the WOMEN.

					DON CORLEONE
				  (whispered)
			Genco, I've brought my sons to pay
			their respects.  And look, even
			Johnny Fontane, all the way from
			Hollywood.

GENCO is a tiny, wasted skeleton of a man.  DON CORLEONE
takes his bony hand, as the others arrange themselves around
his bed, each clasping the other hand in turn.

					GENCO
			Godfather, Godfather, it's your
			daughter's wedding day, you cannot
			refuse me.  Cure me, you have the
			power.

					DON CORLEONE
			I have no such power...but Genco,
			don't fear death.

					GENCO
				  (with a sly wink)
			It's been arranged, then?

					DON CORLEONE
			You blaspheme.  Resign yourself.

					GENCO
			You need your old Consigliere.  Who
			will replace me?
				  (suddenly)
			Stay with me Godfather.  Help me
			meet death.  If he sees you, he
			will be frightened and leave me in
			peace.  You can say a word, pull a
			few strings, eh?  We'll outwit that
			bastard as we outwitted all those
			others.
				  (clutching his hand)
			Godfather, don't betray me.

The DON motions all the others to leave the room.  They do.
He returns his attention to GENCO, holding his hand and
whispering things we cannot hear, as they wait for death.

INT NIGHT: AIRPLANE (SUMMER 1945)

FADE IN:

The interior of a non-stop Constellation.  HAGEN is one of
the very few passengers on this late flight.  He looks like
any young lawyer on a business trip.  He is tired from the
difficult preparation and duties that he has just executed
during the wedding.  On the seat next to him is an enormous,
bulging briefcase.  He closes his eyes.

INT NIGHT: HONEYMOON HOTEL (SUMMER 1945)

The honeymoon hotel: CARLO and CONNIE.  CARLO is in his
undershorts, sitting up on the bed, anxiously taking the
envelopes out of the silk bridal purse and counting the
contents.  CONNIE prepares herself in the large marble
bathroom.  She rubs her hands over his bronze shoulders, and
tries to get his interest.

INT NIGHT: DON'S OFFICE (SUMMER 1945)

DON CORLEONE in his office.  LUCA BRASI sitting near to him.

					DON CORLEONE
			Luca, I am worried about this man
			Sollozzo.  Find out what you can,
			through the Tattaglias.  Let them
			believe you could be tempted away
			from the Corleone Family, if the
			right offer was made.  Learn what
			he has under his fingernails...

INT NIGHT: MANCINI APT. HALL (SUMMER 1945)

The hallway of an apartment building.  SONNY enters, climbs
two steps at a time.  He knocks, and then whispers.

					SONNY
			It's me, Sonny.

The door opens, and two lovely arms are around him, pulling
him into the apartment.

INT NIGHT: LUCA'S ROOM (WINTER 1945)

LUCA BRASI's tiny room.  He is partly dressed.  He kneels
and reaches under his bed and pulls out a small, locked
trunk.  He opens it, and takes out a heavy, bullet-proof
vest.  He puts it on, over his wool undershirt, and then
puts on his shirt and jacket.  He takes his gun, quickly
disassembles, checks, and reassembles it.  And leaves.

INT NIGHT: DON'S OFFICE (SUMMER 1945)

A CLOSE VIEW of DON CORLEONE thinking quietly.

INT NIGHT: MOVING TRAIN (SUMMER 1945)

MICHAEL and KAY on a train, speeding on their way to New
Hampshire.

INT NIGHT: SUBWAY (WINTER 1945)

LUCA, in his bulky jacket, sitting quietly on an empty
subway train.

INT NIGHT: AIRPLANE (SUMMER 1945)

HAGEN on the Constellation.  He reaches into his briefcase,
and takes out several pictures and papers.

One photograph is of a smiling man, JACK WOLTZ, linked arm
in arm with fifteen movie stars on either side, including a
lovely young child star to his immediate right.

HAGEN considers other papers.

INT NIGHT: DON'S OFFICE (SUMMER 1945)

DON CORLEONE looks, and then moves HAGEN into an embrace.
He straightens his arms and looks at TOM deeply.

					DON CORLEONE
			Remember my new Consigliere, a
			lawyer with his briefcase can steal
			more than a hundred men with guns.

EXT DAY: WOLTZ ESTATE GATE (SUMMER 1945)

JACK WOLTZ ESTATE.  HAGEN stands before the impressive gate,
armed only with his briefcase.  A GATEMAN opens the gate,
and TOM enters.

EXT DAY: WOLTZ GARDENS (SUMMER 1945)

HAGEN and WOLTZ comfortably stroll along beautiful formal
gardens, martinis in hand.

					WOLTZ
			You should have told me your boss
			was Corleone, Tom, I had to check
			you out.  I thought you were just
			some third rate hustler Johnny was
			running in to bluff me.
				  (a piece of statuary)
			Florence, thirteenth century.
			Decorated the garden of a king.

They cross the garden and head toward the stables.

					WOLTZ
			I'm going to show you something
			beautiful.

They pass the stables, and come to rest by a stall with a
huge bronze plaque attached to the outside wall: "KHARTOUM."
TWO SECURITY GUARDS are positioned in chairs nearby; they
rise as WOLTZ approaches.

					WOLTZ
			You like horses?  I like horses, I
			love 'em.  Beautiful, expensive
			Racehorses.

The animal inside is truly beautiful.  WOLTZ whispers to him
with true love in his voice.

					WOLTZ
			Khartoum...Kartoum...You are
			looking at six hundred thousand
			dollars on four hoofs.  I bet even
			Russian Czars never paid that kind
			of dough for a single horse.  But
			I'm not going to race him I'm going
			to put him out to Stud.

INT NIGHT: WOLTZ DINING ROOM (SUMMER 1945)

HAGEN and WOLTZ sit at an enormous dining room table,
attended by SEVERAL SERVANTS.  Great paintings hang on the
walls.  The meal is elaborate and sumptuous.

					HAGEN
			Mr. Corleone is Johnny's Godfather.
			That is very close, a very sacred
			religious relationship.

					WOLTZ
			Okay, but just tell him this is one
			favor I can't give.  But he should
			try me again on anything else.

					HAGEN
			He never asks a second favor when
			he has been refused the first.
			Understood?

					WOLTZ
			You smooth son of a bitch, let me
			lay it on the line for you, and
			your boss.  Johnny Fontane never
			gets that movie.  I don't care how
			many Dago, Guinea, wop Greaseball
			Goombahs come out of the woodwork!

					HAGEN
			I'm German-Irish.

					WOLTZ
			Okay my Kraut-Mick friend, Johnny
			will never get that part because I
			hate that pinko punk and I'm going
			to run him out of the Movies.  And
			I'll tell you why.  He ruined one
			of Woltz Brothers' most valuable
			proteges.  For five years I had
			this girl under training; singing
			lessons!  Acting lessons!  Dancing
			lessons!  We spent hundreds of
			thousands of dollars--I was going
			to make her a star.  I'll be even
			more frank, just to show you that
			I'm not a hard-hearted man, that it
			wasn't all dollars and cents.  That
			girl was beautiful and young and
			innocent and she was the greatest
			piece of ass I've ever ad and I've
			had them all over the world.  Then
			Johnny comes along with that olive
			oil voice and guinea charm and she
			runs off.  She threw it all away to
			make me look ridiculous.  A MAN IN
			MY POSITION CANNOT AFFORD TO BE
			MADE TO LOOK RIDICULOUS!

EXT DAY: GENCO OLIVE OIL CO. (SUMMER 1945)

An unimposing little building in New York City on Mott
Street with a large old sign: "GENCO OLIVE OIL IMPORTS,
INC." next to an open-faced fruit market.

A dark Buick pulls up, and a single small man, whom we
cannot see well because of the distance, gets out and enters
the building.  This is VIRGIL SOLLOZZO.

INT DAY: OLIVE OIL OFFICES (SUMMER 1945)

Looking toward the staircase we can hear SOLLOZZO's footsteps
before he actually rises into view.  He is a small man, very
dark, with curly black hair.  But wiry, and tight and hard,
and obviously very dangerous.  He is greeted at the head of
the stairs by SONNY, who takes his hand and shakes it,
introducing himself.  For a moment, there is a complex of
handshaking quite formal, and whispered respectful
introductions.  Finally, SOLLOZZO is taken into the DON's
glass paneled office; the two principals are introduced.
They are very respectful of one another.  Folding chairs are
brought in by FREDDIE, and soon they are all sitting around
in a circle; the DON, SOLLOZZO, SONNY, HAGEN, FREDDIE,
CLEMENZA and TESSIO.  The DON is the slightest bit foolish
with all his compatriots, whereas SOLLOZZO has brought no
one.  Throughout all that transpires, however, it is clear


						THE END
